[PLAT-217] Seqera Compute M2 docs (#570)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-cloud/docs/compute-envs/seqera-compute.mdx

---
title: "Seqera Compute"
description: "Instructions to set up Seqera Compute in Seqera Platform"

> date: "21 Apr 2023"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: "21 Apr 2025"
```

tags: [seqera compute, compute environment]
---

> Seqera Compute enables you to seamlessly run pipelines and Studios in Seqera Cloud in a fully managed and optimized compute environment on AWS. Seqera automatically provisions and manages all underlying resources, including AWS accounts, credentials, roles, AWS Batch compute environments, and S3 storage buckets, requiring minimal user configuration. Using prepaid credits enables control and visibility of the compute spend in each of your organization's workspaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Seqera Compute enables you to run pipelines and studio sessions in Seqera Cloud in a fully managed and optimized AWS environment. Seqera automatically provisions and manages all the underlying resources, including AWS accounts, credentials, roles, AWS Batch compute environments, and S3 storage buckets, requiring minimal user configuration. Using prepaid credits enables control and visibility of the compute spend in each of your organization's workspaces.
```

Reviewer: I think we need to be very careful calling Seqera Compute a "compute environment on AWS". A compute environment is a very specific/defined resource/entity managed by AWS Batch. This is more than a CE. Either just call it an "AWS environment" or we need to think of another descriptive noun that best represents it.

### Manage Seqera Compute credits 

> View Seqera Compute credit balance and spend under the organization or workspace **Settings** tabs. Workspace settings show the credits spent on Seqera Compute in that workspace, whereas organization settings show the total credit spend in all workspaces in that organization. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View Seqera Compute credit balance and spend under both your organization or workspace **Settings** tabs. Workspace settings show the credits spent on Seqera Compute in that workspace, whereas organization settings show the total credit spend across all workspaces in an organization. 
```

Select **Contact us to upgrade** to purchase additional credits for your organization. 

### Create a Seqera Compute environment 

1. In a workspace with Seqera Compute enabled, select **Compute environments > New environment**.
1. Enter a descriptive name for this environment, such as _Seqera Compute 1 (eu-west-1)_.
1. Under **Platform**, select **Seqera Compute**. 
1. Select a target execution **Region**. 
    :::info

>     If your pipeline or Studio input data resides in existing S3 storage, select the region nearest to this data to minimize cross-region data transfer costs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If your data resides in existing S3 object storage, select the same, or nearest, region to your data to minimize cross-region ingress/egress costs. 
```

    :::
1. Configure any advanced options described in the next section, as needed.

> 1. Select **Add** to complete the Seqera Compute environment configuration and return to the compute environments list. It will take a few seconds for the compute environment resources to be created before you are ready to launch pipelines. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select **Add** to complete the Seqera Compute environment configuration and return to the compute environments list. It will take a few seconds for the compute environment resources to be created before you are ready to launch pipelines or add studios. 
```

:::info 
See [Launch pipelines](../launch/launchpad.mdx) to start executing workflows in your Seqera Compute environment.
:::

#### Advanced options (optional)

> 1. Enter a relative **Pipeline work directory** path to be appended to the S3 storage bucket Seqera creates for this compute environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enter a relative **working directory** path to be appended to the S3 storage bucket Seqera creates for this compute environment. 
```

Author: @robnewman it's in bold since we're referring to a UI field name, so we're stating the field name verbatim. This does, however, raise the question of updating this field name for the CE types that can be used both for pipelines and studios. "Working directory" is a better catch-all term for this field, at least for AWS and SC compute environments.

1. Enter [pre- or post-run Bash scripts](../launch/advanced.mdx#pre--post-run-scripts) that execute before or after the Nextflow pipeline execution in your environment.

> 1. Enter Global Nextflow configuration settings for all pipeline runs launched with this compute environment. Values defined here are pre-filled in the **Nextflow config file** field in the pipeline launch form. These values can be overridden during pipeline launch. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enter Global Nextflow configuration settings for all pipeline runs launched with this environment. Values defined here are pre-filled in the **Nextflow config file** field in the pipeline launch form. These values can be overridden at pipeline launch. 
```

    :::info
    Configuration settings in this field override the same values in the pipeline repository `nextflow.config` file. See [Nextflow config file](../launch/advanced.mdx#nextflow-config-file) for more information on configuration priority. 
    :::

> 1. Specify custom **Environment variables** for the **Head job** and/or **Compute jobs**.

Reviewer 2: I think we need another section on this page with limitations (ex. max CPUs, compute environments, etc.)

### Manage Seqera Compute credits 

Seqera Compute environments consume credits when running pipelines or studio sessions. 

View your Seqera Compute credit balance and spend under both the organization and workspace **Settings** tabs. Workspace settings show the credits spent in that workspace, whereas organization settings show the total credits spent in all workspaces in that organization. 

Select **Contact us to upgrade** to purchase additional credits for your organization. 

### Create a Seqera Compute environment 

1. In a workspace with Seqera Compute enabled, select **Compute environments > New environment**.
1. Enter a descriptive name for this environment, such as _Seqera Compute 1 (eu-west-1)_.
1. Under **Platform**, select **Seqera Compute**. 
1. Select a target execution **Region**. 
    :::info

>     If your data resides in existing S3 object storage, select the same, or nearest, region to your data to minimize cross-region ingress/egress costs. 

Author: I'll add this note to the credit cost breakdown above, and remove it here as it's not relevant to the execution region of the CE

---
title: "Seqera Compute"
description: "Instructions to set up Seqera Compute in Seqera Platform"
date: "21 Apr 2025"
tags: [seqera compute, compute environment]
---

Seqera Compute enables you to run pipelines and studio sessions in Seqera Cloud in a fully managed and optimized AWS environment. Seqera automatically provisions and manages all the underlying resources, including AWS accounts, credentials, roles, AWS Batch compute environments, and S3 storage buckets, requiring minimal user configuration. Using prepaid credits enables control and visibility of the compute spend in each of your organization's workspaces.

### Manage Seqera Compute credits 

> Seqera Compute environments consume credits when running pipelines or studio sessions. Credits are consumed for CPU time, memory and storage usage, and network costs. 1 Seqera Compute credit is equivalent to $1 (USD), and resources are charged for at the following rates:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Seqera Compute environments consume credits when running pipelines or studio sessions. Credits are consumed for CPU time, memory and storage usage, and network costs. 1 Seqera Compute credit is equivalent to $1 (USD), and resources are charged at the following rates:
```

- CPU time: 1 CPU/Hr = 0.1 USD
- Memory: 1 GiB/Hr = 0.025 USD 

> - Storage: 1 GB = 0.25 USD per month 

Reviewer 2: Also – these prices are in credits.

---
title: "Seqera Compute"
description: "Instructions to set up Seqera Compute in Seqera Platform"
date: "21 Apr 2025"
tags: [seqera compute, compute environment]
---

> Seqera Compute enables you to run pipelines and studio sessions in Seqera Cloud in a fully managed and optimized AWS environment. Seqera automatically provisions and manages all the underlying resources, including AWS accounts, credentials, roles, AWS Batch compute environments, and S3 storage buckets, requiring minimal user configuration. Using prepaid credits enables control and visibility of the compute spend in each of your organization's workspaces.

Reviewer 2: Note – Can we avoid calling out 'Batch' specifically as this won't always be the case? We can just say "AWS compute environments"

### Manage Seqera Compute credits 

Seqera Compute environments consume credits when running pipelines or studio sessions. Credits are consumed for CPU time, memory and storage usage, and network costs. 1 Seqera Compute credit is equivalent to $1 (USD), and resources are charged at the following rates:
- CPU time: 1 CPU/Hr = 0.1 USD
- Memory: 1 GiB/Hr = 0.025 USD 
- Storage: 1 GB = 0.25 USD per month 

:::note 

> Storage and network costs vary per region. Data ingress and egress across regions incure additional cost. 

Reviewer 2: Can we note that Seqera Compute will charge ingress/egress at the stated AWS rate?

### Default limits

Seqera Compute has default workspace limits on compute environments, and organization limits on data storage and CPU cores. 

|                                    | **Basic**                        | **Pro**                            |
|------------------------------------|----------------------------------|------------------------------------|
| Cloud storage                      | 25 GB                            | Unlimited                          |
| Compute environments per workspace | 5                                | 20                                 |
| Total CPU cores                    | 100                              | 1000                               |

:::info
[Contact us](https://seqera.io/contact-us/) to discuss custom limits for Pro, academic, or evaluation licenses. 
:::

### Create a Seqera Compute environment 

1. In a workspace with Seqera Compute enabled, select **Compute environments > New environment**.
1. Enter a descriptive name for this environment, such as _Seqera Compute 1 (eu-west-1)_.
1. Under **Platform**, select **Seqera Compute**. 
1. Select a target execution **Region**. 
    :::info

>     Seqera Compute is available in the following AWS regions: 

Reviewer 2: This list isn't accurate, the list should be – 
United States 
us-east-1 (Northern Virginia, USA)
us-west-2 (Oregon, USA)
us-east-2 (Ohio, USA)
us-west-1 (Northern California, USA)

Europe 
eu-west-1 (Ireland)
eu-west-2 (London, UK)
eu-central-1 (Frankfurt, Germany)
eu-west-3 (Paris, France) 

APAC
ap-southeast-1 (Singapore)

Author: I went off the listed available regions in staging: 
<img width="998" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2fdcc7c1-f67e-47b7-9f6b-8f7373f7cb18" />

Is this list trimmed down in prod? I don't have access to a prod workspace where I can create a SC CE

Author: Going with restricted list, per https://seqera.slack.com/archives/C081H57DNAX/p1747053981429919

---
title: "Seqera Compute"
description: "Instructions to set up Seqera Compute in Seqera Platform"
date: "21 Apr 2025"
tags: [seqera compute, compute environment]
---

Seqera Compute enables you to run pipelines and studio sessions in Seqera Cloud in a fully managed and optimized AWS environment. Seqera automatically provisions and manages all the underlying resources, including AWS accounts, credentials, roles, compute environments, and S3 storage buckets, requiring minimal user configuration. Using prepaid credits enables control and visibility of the compute spend in each of your organization's workspaces.

### Manage Seqera Compute credits 

> Seqera Compute environments consume credits when running pipelines or studio sessions. Credits are consumed for CPU time, memory and storage usage, and network costs. 1 Seqera Compute credit is equivalent to $1 (USD), and resources are charged at the following rates:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Seqera Compute environments consume credits when running pipelines or Studio sessions. Credits are consumed for CPU time, memory and storage usage, and network costs. One Seqera Compute credit is equivalent to $1 (USD), and resources are charged at the following rates:
```

- CPU time: 1 CPU/Hr = 0.1 credit
- Memory: 1 GiB/Hr = 0.025 credit 
- Storage: 1 GB = 0.25 credit per month 

:::note 

> Storage and network costs vary per region, charged at standard AWS rates. Data ingress and egress across regions incure additional cost. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Storage and network costs vary per region, charged at standard AWS rates. Data ingress and egress across regions incur additional costs. 
```

:::

> View your Seqera Compute credit balance and spend under both the organization and workspace **Settings** tabs. Workspace settings show the credits spent in that workspace, whereas organization settings show the total credits spent in all workspaces in that organization. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
View your Seqera Compute credit balance and spend under both the organization and workspace **Settings** tabs. Workspace settings show the credits spent in that workspace, whereas organization settings show the total credits spent in all workspaces within that organization. 
```

Select **Contact us to upgrade** to request additional credits for your organization. 

### Default limits

Seqera Compute has default workspace limits on compute environments, and organization limits on data storage and CPU cores. 

|                                    | **Basic**                        | **Pro**                            |
|------------------------------------|----------------------------------|------------------------------------|
| Cloud storage                      | 25 GB                            | Unlimited                          |
| Compute environments per workspace | 5                                | 20                                 |
| Total CPU cores                    | 100                              | 1000                               |

:::info

> [Contact us](https://seqera.io/contact-us/) to discuss custom limits for Pro, academic, or evaluation licenses. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Contact us](https://seqera.io/contact-us/) to discuss custom limits for Pro, Academic, or evaluation licenses. 
```

Reviewer 3: * not 100% sure whether academic is capitalized.

:::

### Create a Seqera Compute environment 

1. In a workspace with Seqera Compute enabled, select **Compute environments > New environment**.
1. Enter a descriptive name for this environment, such as _Seqera Compute 1 (eu-west-1)_.
1. Under **Platform**, select **Seqera Compute**. 
1. Select a target execution **Region**. 
    :::info

>     Seqera Compute is available in the following AWS regions: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Seqera Compute is available in the following AWS Regions: 
```
